---
layout: post
title:  "Hello, World"
date:   2015-03-26
categories: general
root: "../"
---

>_“The programmer works only slightly removed from pure thought-stuff. He builds castles in the air, from air, creating by exertion of the imagination.”_

Three years ago, I graduated from Princeton University with a degree in English Literature and no career plans to speak of. My friends and classmates seemed to have all figured out their post-graduation plans: graduate or law school, investment banking, traveling the world. They would cheerily ask me where I was headed, and I would be too embarrassed to tell them what I was--or rather wasn’t--doing.

**Today, I’m what you might call a software engineer.**

<!--more--> 

Nowadays, when I tell people that I'm "what you might call a software engineer", there's a universal refrain: 

## _"But you didn't know anything about coding!"_

I get that a lot--from family, friends, old classmates--and it's true, I _didn't_ know much about coding. I didn't know what an endpoint, API, or SDK was. I certainly didn't know what a "stack" was.

But you can always learn.

I've learned a lot in the past year as a software engineer at [Switch](http://www.switchapp.com), from small eccentricities:

* [`[UITableView reloadData]` calls `[resignFirstResponder]` on its member cells][1]

to things that I really should know...

* inheriting, subclassing, and extending all mean the same thing
* [NSNumber numberWithBool:NO] evaluates to `true`
* `==` isn't the same as `is`

to important life lessons

* You can never clean, quit, and rebuild XCode enough times. Clean, quit, rebuild. Clean, quit, rebuild.
* The more I learn, the more I learn that I have more to learn

I've also learned that when you're learning something new, it's all too easy to fall into these patterns:

1. thinking that you are not the type of person to <del>program</del> <del>dance</del> <del>cook</del> learn
2. forgetting to remember what you learned
3. forgetting to share what you learned with the many others on the journey with you

Learning should be a natural state of being.

Learning should not get in the way of thinking about it. 

Learning should be shared, like a smile, or a `print` statement to the world.

So this blog will be mostly about getting from point A to point B. There are many point B's in our lives, if we're doing it right. I would love to share with you all what I discovered, and will discover, along the way. 

Do share with me, too--[I would love to hear from you](http://twitter.com/hazelynutter).

[1]: http://localhost:4000/blog/objective-c/2015/03/26/autocomplete-tableview.html