---
layout: scribble
title: ""
description: ""
category: scribbles
tags: []
---

# Today I am Scribbling about my blog remodeling project.

I've been wanting to write and recollect more during my visit to Hong Kong and Japan, and decided it was a good time to remodel the blog.

As part of this, I added a "Scribbles" section so that as I work, I can take a few notes on my goals and process that day, while not worrying too much about prose.

Yesterday
=========

* [x] set up Jekyll bootstrap to help create new posts (this one was created with a `rake` command! that's a Ruby script thing...right?)

# Today

* [x] Create scribble section for daily breakdown of project tasks and completion
* [x] Write spec for blog
* [ ] Learn Sketch basics for web design
* [ ] Wireframe blog

# Notes

* Getting waylaid by formatting this scribble! Base saas removes margin-bottom from lists and makes things look weird. Adding margin-bottom makes nested lists look weird. What to do?

# Product Spec

_Note: this is weird because while my audience is the readers of this blog, the "user" of this product is me, the writer. User stories are about what I want readers to see me as:_

1. Interested in solving technical problems
1. A professional programmer
1. Intellectually curious about life and how we feel about things

In that order.

To that effect:

* A reader's first impression should be my technical blogs.
* A reader should be able to browse posts by technical versus nontechnical posts.

That much suggests that I should separate my posts by coding/non-coding. It is possible that I want non-coding to be further subdivided into separate sections.

The type of presentation also depends on what type of readers I expect to have. I'll name them for fun.

1. **People who know me** (Jenn): This is the type of reader that will go to my blog once in a while to see if there are any new posts. I think they can bookmark or remember a particular URL (www.eskimona.com/life) for this.
1. **People who find my technical posts through Googling efforts**: (Joe Googler): These users are looking for a solution to a particular problem, or a tutorial on how to do something. They should already be directed to the right post. These users might be interested in a RSS feed if the content helps them.
1. **People who are looking at my professional profile** (Mr. Headhunterson): redirected from LinkedIn. These users are interested in seeing the type of work I have produced, and maybe in the non-coding stuff to see what kind of person I am. I don't think displaying recent work is necessarily important. An excerpt is useful to showcase your writing, but maybe I can focus on having descriptive, interesting titles on all blog posts.

Conclusion:

1. Main index should be about coding, with links to posts and their titles (no excerpts)
    1. next: implement pagination
	1. maybe: display *recommended posts* and an index of all other posts (I'm on the fence)
1. Navigation bar should include non-coding categories.
1. Non-coding categories should have indices that list whole posts (for Jenns, to save a click)
	1. Non-coding categories should be paginated
1. Navigation between posts in the same category should be easy (for Mr. Headhunterson)
1. Related posts (Joe Googler)
1. RSS feed (Joe Googler)

